So we already use attribute directives like Engy class Ningi style.
It's even easier to understand what to do once we've pulled our own one.
So I went to Boulder directive which simply highlights that element.
I hover over let's say of course it could achieve the same of normal styles but this is just a good
demo.
So I will create a new folder and I will name it basic highlight like this because in there I create
a new file basic highlight and now directive dot ts.
So before we always had component files.
Now this is a new element.
It's not a component.
It will be a directive hence the file name.
Now in this file we export a class name basic hi light directive again to be descriptive about what
this class is and to make it a directive just like with a component where we added at component here
we have to add at directive and directive needs to be imported from any angle or core.
So make sure to add this import and we need to pass an object to the decorator to configure this directive.
Now how do we can figure out the rest of the one thing our directive absolutely needs is a selector
because remember we do place directives in our template to attach them to elements so we need to have
some way to give angular dead instruction.
And that is the selector here that should also be a unique selector.
So typically Here you use a camel case notation to give it app highlight as a selector or maybe AB basic
highlight like this.
Now that would select the by element.
Now I want to have this attribute style so I'm going to wrap this in square brackets which means this
will now be recognized whenever I add app.
Basic highlight.
Without square brackets to an element.
Now to show this we need to do something which gives us some visual clue that this is working.
So the basic thing is the most basic use cases we change let's say the background color of the element
where we attached this directive for this we need to get access to the element.
The directive sits on and the cool thing is angular gives us this access we can inject the element.
The directive sits on into this directive and injection is something we'll take a closer look at in
the next Klores module in the big next course module which is about services I can say that much.
It basically is an easy way to get access to some of the classes without having them to instantiate
on our own.
We do in check by adding the constructor which every type of class has.
We don't need to write anything in the constructor body for now.
But here on the list of arguments we list a couple of arguments you want to get whenever an instance
of this class here is created and of course Engler is responsible for creating these instances.
So therefore if we tell it to.
Please give us a specific type of argument.
This is what injection is angler will try to create this thing we need and give it to us.
Well this thing we need in this case simply is a reference to the element.
The directive was placed on so element ref and this name is totally up to you but the type is important
to type has to be element ref.
You might recognize this from at view child.
There it also was a reference to some element here it is to now to be able to use this data in our class.
You're everywhere in the class.
We can use a type of shortcut of adding private in front of it which will make this both a property
office class so property element ref and automatically assign this value.
So in this instance we're getting to this property now that we got access to the element that we can
use it here in our constructor for example access to native element and then do something with it though
a better place than the constructor is on it.
And just like the component the directive also has the NGI on in it lifecycle.
It doesn't have all the other hooks though does have on destroy but it won't have ofter view in it.
And so on because the directive unlike a component doesn't have a view it doesn't have a template we
didn't add one and we can't.
So here I can they are for at Engy on in it and in there we could access elements rith.
That's the shortcut which automatically gave me this property access to native element and their ex-sister
style and maybe the background color and set is equal to green so that we can see something changed.
So what we're doing here is we're getting access to the element of directive was placed on getting access
to that exact element and then we're overwriting the style of this element.
Now let's use this directive to use it.
We have to do two things.
First of all like for a component we have to inform angler that we have a new directive.
Just like with components it doesn't scan all our files so it doesn't know.
So we have to go to app Marchal And here in declarations we have to add our basic highlight directive
and also at the import pointing to the basic highlife folder and there are two basic highlight directive
file.
Now with this we can use that directive in our absence to be informed and ular.
Now let's use our AB component AGM of file and here we are below all our lists.
I will simply add a new paragraph style me with basic directives something like that.
And now to this paragraph I can add app basic.
Highlight my own selector.
We don't need to set any value.
And importantly we don't use square brackets because as I already emphasised the directive name is just
a selector.
We set up here and the square brackets here are not part of that name.
It's part of this select or style tally angler police selected as an attribute on an element.
And that's just how we added to your like an attribute of the paragraph.
Now if that if we save this we indeed see a green paragraph below our list because our directive is
doing its job here.
It's styling it.
So that's our first basic attribute directive.
We can enhance this though.